Using Agile in Project Management.
The previous section discussed the traditional project management process.
This process does work very well and is still in use today.
But I would like to spend a few minutes discussing an Agile
approach to project management in this section.
Here's a quote to lead off this section.
"It is not the strongest of the species that survive,
"nor the most intelligent, "but the ones most responsive to change,
" stated by Charles Darwin.
That is what makes the Agile approach so powerful.
It is designed for change.
Every single business I have ever seen is constantly changing.
So why not give this a try?
Let's learn more.
Here is a basic definition of Agile.
Agile describes a set of principles and practices for
delivering software or for that matter, any product or service.
The principles and practice are the underpinnings for
many Agile frameworks such as Scrum.
Here are the key principles and practices of Agile but there are
more if you're so inclined to research them.
Highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and
continuous delivery of valuable that is usable software.
Welcome changing requirements.
Even late in development,
Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage.
Business owners and developers must work closely
together daily throughout the project.
Working software is the primary measure of progress.
Simplicity, the art of maximizing the amount of work not done is essential.
Remember how easy it is to goal play?
That is develop requirements that are not really
necessary at the moment in time?
At regular intervals, reflect on how to become more effective,
then tune and adjust your team's behavior accordingly.
These are just some of the basic examples of Agile principles on
which other methodologies were built upon.
Here are some examples of Agile methodologies in use today.
Scrum, which is probably the most widely used.
eXtreme Programming known as XP,
Dynamic Systems Development Method and Adaptive
Software Development and there's more, of course.
Since the Agile approach is different,
you might imagine that the roles have changed
somewhat from traditional projects.
Since Scrum is the most widely used today,
let's talk about the new key roles of a Scrum-based project.
Each of these roles has a defined set of responsibilities and only if
they fulfill these responsibilities and closely interact and work
together can they finish the project successfully.
Okay, the Scrum team.
It is composed of three roles.
The first, the Scrum Master.
And the Scrum Master role has two distinct subroles.
First, he or she acts as the protector of the team,
making sure that everyone on the project,
especially the development team members can focus on
their work without any distractions.
The second element of the Scrum Master role is to
protect the Scrum process itself.
The Scrum Master is the expert on how Scrum works and how it should be applied.
He or she will ensure that the product owner and
development team stay within the Scrum framework,
and to a greater degree,
the Scrum Master can coach the other team members on how to
use Scrum in the most effective manner.
Now note,
this is a very different role from that of a traditional project manager.
Despite frequent comparisons made between the two,
project managers are responsible for managing the work of the project
team members and that guides their own day-to-day work.
For the Scrum Master however,
the only formal accountability is over the process itself.
Another new role is the development team.
Within the Scrum framework,
all work delivered to the customer is done by dedicated Scrum teams.
A Scrum team is a collection of individuals working together to
deliver requested and committed product elements.
And the development team is just that.
They're the software engineers developing the software.
Then we have the Scrum Product Owner.
The Product Owner is the cornerstone of the project's success,
responsible for defining the work that needs to be
completed and prioritizing that work.
It may be comprised of an end user or a business
user or a line of business user.
It may even be a team.
The Product Owner knows what they want and the development team
designs it and builds it and delivers it to them.
Then there's the synergy.
In other words you've got to work together collaboratively.
Now here we've only scratched the surface of the three Scrum roles but
it's enough to establish that each is unique to Scrum.
They're not simply revised waterfall roles.
Further, each one complements the other.
Success can only come from embracing all three and
allowing them to work together.
Now, as organizations move towards Scrum,
it is vital that they support each of these roles,
allowing time for expertise to develop and resisting comparisons
between Scrum and waterfall or traditional approaches. Now let's check out Agile process groups.